# DSC180A Quarter 1 Project

## Introduction

The following contains code for two assignments involving the exploration of graph theory and its applications in chip design. Assignment 1 explores creating a queryable graph representation of the MTA subway system. Assignment 2 explores the DigIC dataset and how it was processed for use in the DE-HNN research paper.

Please see README files of each assignment for more information.

## Setup Instructions

### Step 1: Clone the Repository

Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/waltercywong/DSC180A_Quarter1Project
cd DSC180A_Quarter1Project
```

### Step 2: Download Required Files

#### Assignment 1 Files

Download the MTA ridership data at the following Google Drive link:

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1fV47SWGv5_AFPR_gRfvK1ra1LfSFCgOw

Place the downloaded csv file into the `assignment1/data` folder.

#### Assignment 2 Files

Download the processed dataset at the following link:

https://zenodo.org/records/10795280?token=eyJhbGciOiJIUzUxMiJ9.eyJpZCI6Ijk5NjM2MzZiLTg0ZmUtNDI2My04OTQ3LTljMjA5ZjA3N2Y1OSIsImRhdGEiOnt9LCJyYW5kb20iOiJlYzFmMGJlZTU3MzE1OWMzOTU2MWZkYTE3MzY5ZjRjOCJ9.WifQFExjW1CAW0ahf3e5Qr0OV9c2cw9_RUbOXUsvRbnKlkApNZwVCL_VPRJvAve0MJDC0DDOSx_RLiTvBimr0w

Place the downloaded folders into a `assignment2/data/DEHNN_dataset` folder.

Download the raw dataset at the following Google Drive link:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Scq35gvCQvIMrmthGs7MUhc8c1VZ8ZwN/view

Place the downloaded folders into a `assignment2/data/DigIC_dataset` folder.

### Step 3: Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Assignment 1: MTA_Subway_Graph_Representation

### Purpose

The MTA transit system is an expansive subway system that connects the boroughs of New York City. The code in `representation.ipynb` creates a graph representation of the subway system and its rider traffic, along with some queries that are useful for analysis and solving problems regarding optimizing riders' experience.

### Data

#### MTA Station Dataset

This dataset contains information about each individual station complex, including features like a unique ID, borough, coordinates, line information, and station structure type.

Full description: https://data.ny.gov/Transportation/MTA-Subway-Stations/39hk-dx4f/about_data

#### MTA Ridership Dataset

This dataset contains information about ridership across different days, times, origin, and destination stations.

Full description: https://data.ny.gov/Transportation/MTA-Subway-Origin-Destination-Ridership-Estimate-2/jsu2-fbtj/about_data

## Assignment 2: DE-HNN Exploration and Re-Implmentation

### Purpose

The DE-HNN paper explores the DigIC dataset and processes with the goal of 
downstream machine learning tasks with its proposed neural network architecture. 
The code here explores the datasets as well as the graph representation used by 
the paper.

## File Structure

- `README.md`: Overview and instructions for the project.
- `requirements.txt`: List of Python dependencies required for the project.
- `assignment1`: Contains files for Assignment 1
    - `src/`: Main source code for the project.
        - `representation.ipynb`: Contains code for creating the graph representation and querying it.
    - `data/`: Contains datasets used or produced by the project.
        - `mta_stations.csv`: Contains information for each station complex.
- `assignment2`: Contains files for Assignment 2.
    - `src/`: Contains code for Assignment 2.
        - `exploration_processed.ipynb`: Exploratory data analysis on the processed dataset.
        - `exploration_raw.ipynb`: Exploratory data analysis on the raw dataset.
        - `reimplementation.ipynb`: Reimplementation of DEHNN data processing, model architecture, and training.
    - `data/`: Contains the raw and processed datasets explored in the notebooks.
    - `plots/`: Contains plots generated by the notebooks for EDA.
